Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
Now,
in this lecture,
we're gonna have another look at the worksheet change event,
but we're gonna use it to do something much more useful.
So I am no working with the random data set tab again.
His Olsen F 11 have double click random data set,
and here is the first deceleration of our code.
Now,
this is the original code from the Microsoft website MST.
End up Microsoft,
and the full address is here.
You'll find it in this sheet with the same name,
and you can go and have a look at that from Microsoft.
So basically,
the what we're trying to achieve with this code is to find out if a specific cell in a
specific range has bean changed.
So all I've done here is I've taken the Microsoft Code on.
I have changed it slightly to say the target is from the range a three to a three XL down.
So those capturing everything from a three to the end off the range a three down.
And then what we've said is if the Intersect is nothing,
that means the cell I am changing is not in the range a three to the bottom of the A three
data range.
Display the message box.
Do not intersect.
If I select a cell that is within the range a three to a three to the end of the data,
then display the message box that says ranges do intersect.
So here,
I'm going to attempt to change.
Actually here.
I'm just going to say,
burning my mate Bernie on here,
center,
and you can see here that we get the message box that says ranges do not intersect.
Fantastic.
But if I could be OK if I come over here and type Bernie And here center,
we see we get the message box ranges do intersect.
So that useful?
That tells us something.
So I'm gonna hit.
I'm just undo that whip sedating.
I'm just going to undo that.
Yes,
I know the range in sex.
So now I'm back to my original data set.
So this was the first situation I went through.
So that works perfectly.
I confine dirty things are intersecting.
Or if things are not intersecting on,
we'll leave that in there so you can have a play with the code then My second interational
was this an alteration Number two.
And because of rammed everything else out,
this is the code that's actually gonna gonna happen.
So basically,
the shell of the code is precisely the same.
But what we're gonna say is,
if the ice sect is nothing,
that is,
if I don't If I If I don't select to sell,
that's within my A three to the bottom off that data range a three to a three down,
then I just want you to end.
That is,
I don't to display any message boxes.
I don't want anything to happen now.
If they do intersect,
I want to display a message box on that message box is going to say,
Hey,
don't change this to on whatever it is that attempted to change the value to Then we have
this piece of code here on this piece of code.
UN enables the events,
which means it's going to stop it.
Iterating again is going to use the application undo which is the undo function in excel.
Nothing vb not control in and said it's the undo function in excel.
And then we are re enabling the application events so excels use will go back to normal.
So let's say let's flip back to here and try it.
So if I type something over here,
so if I take Joe or I take a map,
it's perfectly happy cause it's hitting that end statement because they do not intersect.
But let's imagine for a second that I am a picture Ashley already I haven't picked on
Claire.
No,
I'm not gonna pick on Claire.
Claire frightens me.
I'm gonna pick on.
I'm gonna pick on Emma.
Emma is my favorite.
So imagine I am Emma and I think do I don't want to do thing three.
I'm gonna change that to Joe.
No,
on that change.
When I hit Enter,
we're going to get this message box pop up.
It says,
Hey,
don't change this to Joe because that's exactly what the string say's and notice what
happens when I click.
OK,
he at the cell.
We just changed the undue occurs and it goes back to Emma.
So if anyone comes in here and says,
you know what,
actually I think actually could do this one.
Just a sign that one too young,
actually and hit center.
That would say,
Hey,
don't change this to actually,
when they click OK,
it will automatically go back to Joe.
OK,
I'll see when the next lecturer will have a look at a top secret classified worksheets.
I'll see you in the next lecture.